## bibliography

@article{https://doi.org/10.1002/asjc.3104, year = {2023}, keywords = {bounded disturbance,inner approximation,one-step set,robust viability kernel,switched systems}, title = {{On the computation of the robust viability kernel for switched systems}}, author = {Zhao, Na and Gao, Yan and Lv, Jianfeng and Tang, Jun}, journal = {Asian Journal of Control}, issn = {1561-8625}, doi = {10.1002/asjc.3104}, url = {https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/asjc.3104}, abstract = {{Abstract This paper presents an algorithm of computing the robust viability kernel for discrete-time switched systems with arbitrary switching rule and bounded disturbance based on the robust one-step set and Pontryagin difference. The algorithm can be implemented by performing the relevant set computations using polyhedral algebra and computational geometry software when switched systems are linear. In addition, we propose a method of computing inner approximation of the robust viability kernel for switched systems based on the set theory. The convergence of the iterative algorithm is proved using a null controllable set. Finally, two examples are provided to show the effectiveness of the proposed method.}}, number = {n/a}, volume = {n/a}, language = {English}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Zhao-On%20the%20computation%20of%20the%20robust%20viability%20kernel%20for%20switched%20systems-2023-Asian%20Journal%20of%20Control.pdf} }

@article{YOUSEFI201913, year = {2019}, keywords = {Constraints,Model invariance,Safety-preserving control,Viability kernel}, title = {{Model-invariant viability kernel approximation}}, author = {Yousefi, Mahdi and Heusden, Klaske van and Mitchell, Ian M. and Dumont, Guy A.}, journal = {Systems \& Control Letters}, issn = {0167-6911}, doi = {10.1016/j.sysconle.2019.03.010}, url = {https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167691119300398}, abstract = {{Discussion of safety preserving control in the presence of uncertainty has mostly focused on stochastic and additive uncertainty. Multiplicative uncertainty can be represented as additive uncertainty, however, this may lead to very conservative solutions. We recently introduced a model-invariant safety-preserving control scheme for multiplicative uncertainty with multi-model description in linear time-invariant systems. This scheme relies on an approximation of the model-invariant viability kernel, which is a set of initial states for which there exists a control input that keeps the states of an uncertain system within a set of viability constraints. In previous work, we showed that the model-invariant viability kernel is the intersection of the viability kernels of all members of a model set representing model-uncertainty. Calculating this intersection is computationally expensive if the number of members in the set is large. In this paper, we propose an efficient approach to under-approximate the model-invariant viability kernel without the need to calculate the viability kernel of all individual set members. This extends the practical applicability of our previous work to multi-model uncertainty descriptions with a large or infinite number of models as well as models with continuous uncertainty.}}, pages = {13--18}, volume = {127}, language = {English}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Yousefi-Model-invariant%20viability%20kernel%20approximation-2019-Systems%20&%20Control%20Letters.pdf} } 

@article{10.1109/acc.2009.5160409, year = {2009}, title = {{A method to construct viability kernels for nonlinear control systems}}, author = {Turriff, J. and Broucke, M.E.}, journal = {2009 American Control Conference}, issn = {0743-1619}, doi = {10.1109/acc.2009.5160409}, abstract = {{This paper proposes a method to construct viability kernels for single output nonlinear control systems affine in the control. The safe set is a manifold with boundary and the control is constrained to take values in a compact polyhedron. The results make use of the Frankowska method and the notion of viable capture basins. Three examples illustrate the methodology: the inverted pendulum, a linear system, and a fisheries management problem.}}, pages = {3983--3988}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Turriff-A%20method%20to%20construct%20viability%20kernels%20for%20nonlinear%20control%20systems-2009-2009%20American%20Control%20Conference.pdf} } 

@article{ WOS:000326174700008, year = {2013}, keywords = {control system synthesis; Lyapunov methods; mathematical programming; nonlinear dynamical systems; reachability analysis; invariance kernel; Lyapunov-like functions; reachability analysis; viability theory; control synthesis; trajectory analysis; constrained dynamical systems; low-dimensional non-linear systems; polynomials; semi-definite programming problem}, title = {{Computing an invariance kernel with target by computing Lyapunov-like functions}}, author = {She, Zhikun and Xue, Bai}, journal = {IET CONTROL THEORY AND APPLICATIONS}, issn = {1751-8644}, doi = {10.1049/iet-cta.2013.0275}, abstract = {{Reachability analysis and viability theory play an important role in control synthesis and trajectory analysis of constrained dynamical systems, many methods are known for computing them in low-dimensional non-linear systems, but these well-known methods rely on gridding the state space and hence suffer from the curse of dimensionality. In this study, for systems whose dynamics are described by polynomials, a method based on semi-definite programming is proposed to estimate an invariance kernel with target as large as possible by iteratively searching for Lyapunov-like functions. The proposed methodology is scalable, since the size of the semi-definite programming problem to be solved grows linearly with the system dimension. We test the method on two interesting examples and compare them with some existing methods, the results show that our method is more efficient.}}, pages = {1932--1940}, number = {15}, volume = {7}, language = {English}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/She-Computing%20an%20invariance%20kernel%20with%20target%20by%20computing%20Lyapunov-like-%20%20%20functions-2013-IET%20CONTROL%20THEORY%20AND%20APPLICATIONS.pdf} } 

@article{ WOS:A1994MT93600004, year = {1994}, keywords = {VIABILITY KERNEL; DIFFERENTIAL INCLUSIONS; NUMERICAL SET-VALUED ANALYSIS}, title = {{APPROXIMATION OF THE VIABILITY KERNEL}}, author = {SAINTPIERRE, P}, journal = {APPLIED MATHEMATICS AND OPTIMIZATION}, issn = {0095-4616}, doi = {10.1007/bf01204182}, abstract = {{We study recursive inclusions x(n+1) is-an-element-to G(x(n)). For instance, such systems appear for discrete finite-difference inclusions x(n+1) is-an-element-of G(rho)(x(n)) where G(rho) := 1 + rhoF. The discrete viability kernel of G(rho), i.e., the largest discrete viability domain, can be an internal approximation of the viability kernel of K under F. We study discrete and finite dynamical systems. In the Lipschitz case we get a generalization to differential inclusions of the Euler and Runge-Kutta methods. We prove first that the viability kernel of K under F can be approached by a sequence of discrete viability kernels associated with x(n+1) is-an-element-of GAMMA rho(x(n)) where GAMMA rho(x) = x + rhoF(x) + (Ml/2)rho2 B. Secondly we show that it can be approached by finite viability kernels associated with x(h)n+1 is-an-element-of (GAMMA rho(x(h)n) + alpha(h)B) and X(h).}}, pages = {187--209}, number = {2}, volume = {29}, language = {English} }

@article{10.3934/jcd.2023013, year = {2024}, title = {{Towards optimal space-time discretization for reachable sets of nonlinear control systems}}, author = {Rieger, Janosch and Wawryk, Kyria}, journal = {Journal of Computational Dynamics}, issn = {2158-2491}, doi = {10.3934/jcd.2023013}, pages = {153--173}, number = {2}, volume = {11}, keywords = {} } 

@article{10.1016/j.cam.2016.06.015, year = {2017}, title = {{Approximation of reachable sets using optimal control and support vector machines}}, author = {Rasmussen, Martin and Rieger, Janosch and Webster, Kevin N}, journal = {Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics}, issn = {0377-0427}, doi = {10.1016/j.cam.2016.06.015}, abstract = {{We propose and discuss a new computational method for the numerical approximation of reachable sets for nonlinear control systems. It is based on the support vector machine algorithm and represents the set approximation as a sublevel set of a function chosen in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space. In some sense, the method can be considered as an extension to the optimal control algorithm approach recently developed by Baier, Gerdts and Xausa. The convergence of the method is illustrated numerically for selected examples.}}, pages = {68--83}, volume = {311}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Rasmussen-Approximation%20of%20reachable%20sets%20using%20optimal%20control%20and%20support%20vector%20machines-2017-Journal%20of%20Computational%20and%20Applied%20Mathematics.pdf} } 

@article{undefined, year = {1995}, title = {{An Algorithm for Viabilit y Kernels in H olderian Case: Appro ximation b y Discrete Dynamical Systems}}, author = {Quicampoix, Marc and Saint-Pierre, Patrick}, journal = {Journal of Mathematical Systems, Estimation, and Con trol}, pages = {1---13}, volume = {5}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Downloads/57022.pdf} }

@article{ WOS:000471050200026, year = {2019}, keywords = {capture basin; discriminating kernel; interval methods; regulation map; robust capture basin; viability kernel}, title = {{Computation of discriminating kernel and robust capture basin with regulation map by interval methods}}, author = {Peng, Bowen and Stancu, Alexandru and Dang, Shuping}, journal = {INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ROBUST AND NONLINEAR CONTROL}, issn = {1049-8923}, doi = {10.1002/rnc.4577}, abstract = {{This paper proposes a novel algorithm that characterizes the robust capture basin and the discriminating kernel for constrained nonlinear systems with uncertainties based on viability theory. For nonlinear systems with constrained inputs and bounded uncertainties, the viability kernel is the largest set of states possessing a possibility to be viable in a set, and the capture basin is the largest set of states possessing a possibility to reach a target in a finite time, and keeping viable in a set before reaching the target. However, in the viability theory, both control and uncertainty in a parameterized system are considered as parameters: the discriminating kernel and the proposed robust capture basin link viability theory with robust control, which take both control and uncertainties into account. For the constrained uncertain nonlinear systems, the discriminating kernel is the largest set of states that is robust invariant in a set with proper control, and the robust capture basin is the largest set of states reaching their target in finite time with proper control despite of uncertainties and keeping viable in a set before reaching the target. Furthermore, we map all the states to optimal regulatory control such that the systems are regulated by a regulation map. To compute the robust capture basin and the discriminating kernel, we use interval methods to provide guaranteed solutions. The proposed algorithms in this paper approximate an outer approximation of the minimum reachable target and inner approximations of the robust capture basin and the discriminating kernel in a guaranteed way.}}, pages = {3737--3755}, number = {11}, volume = {29}, language = {English}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Downloads/Discriminatingkernel.pdf} } 

@article{ WOS:000244356600004, year = {2006}, title = {{Construction of the viability kernel for a generalized dynamical system}}, author = {Neznakhin and A., A.}, journal = {PMM JOURNAL OF APPLIED MATHEMATICS AND MECHANICS}, issn = {0021-8928}, doi = {10.1016/j.jappmathmech.2006.11.005}, abstract = {{The problem of the approximate construction of the viability kernel for a generalized dynamical system, the evolution of which is specified directly by an attainability set, is investigated under phase constraints. A backward grid method, based on the substitution of the phase space by pixels and a consideration of ''inverse'' attainability sets, is proposed. The convergence of the method is proved. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.}}, pages = {706--714}, number = {5}, volume = {70}, language = {English}, keywords = {} } 

@article{undefined, year = {2016}, title = {{Computing an Inner and an Outer Approximation of the Viability Kernel}}, author = {Monnet and Ninin, J and Jaulin, L}, journal = {Reliable Computing}, pages = {139}, volume = {22}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Monnet-Computing%20an%20Inner%20and%20an%20Outer%20Approximation%20of%20the%20Viability%20Kernel-2016-Reliable%20Computing.pdf} } 

@article{10.1145/3302504.3313354, year = {2019}, title = {{Invariant, viability and discriminating kernel under-approximation via zonotope scaling: poster abstract}}, author = {Mitchell, Ian M and Budzis, Jacob and Bolyachevets, Andriy}, journal = {Proceedings of the 22nd ACM International Conference on Hybrid Systems: Computation and Control}, doi = {10.1145/3302504.3313354}, pages = {268--269}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Ozay-Invariant,%20viability%20and%20discriminating%20kernel%20under-approximation%20via%20zonotope%20scaling-%20poster%20abstract-2019-Proceedings%20of%20the%2022nd%20ACM%20International%20Conference%20on%20Hybrid%20Systems-%20Computation%20and%20Control.pdf} } 

@article{ WOS:000321233900008, year = {2013}, keywords = {Viability; Reachability; Controlled invariance; Set-theoretic methods; High-dimensional systems; Formal verification; Safety-critical systems}, title = {{Lagrangian methods for approximating the viability kernel in high-dimensional systems}}, author = {Maidens, John N. and Kaynama, Shahab and Mitchell, Ian M. and Oishi, Meeko M. K. and Dumont, Guy A.}, journal = {AUTOMATICA}, issn = {0005-1098}, doi = {10.1016/j.automatica.2013.03.020}, abstract = {{While a number of Lagrangian algorithms to approximate reachability in dozens or even hundreds of dimensions for systems with linear dynamics have recently appeared in the literature, no similarly scalable algorithms for approximating viable sets have been developed. In this paper we describe a connection between reachability and viability that enables us to compute the viability kernel using reach sets. This connection applies to any type of system, such as those with nonlinear dynamics and/or non-convex state constraints; however, here we take advantage of it to construct three viability kernel approximation algorithms for linear systems with convex input and state constraint sets. We compare the performance of the three algorithms and demonstrate that the two based on highly scalable Lagrangian reachability - those using ellipsoidal and support vector set representations - are able to compute the viability kernel for linear systems of larger state dimension than was previously feasible using traditional Eulerian methods. Our results are illustrated on a 6-dimensional pharmacokinetic model and a 20-dimensional model of heat conduction on a lattice. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.}}, pages = {2017--2029}, number = {7}, volume = {49}, language = {English}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Downloads/myAutomatica13.pdf} }

@article{ WOS:000303400100018, year = {2012}, keywords = {invariance and viability kernels; extremal vector fields; switched systems; differential inclusions}, title = {{INVARIANCE KERNELS OF SINGLE-INPUT PLANAR NONLINEAR SYSTEMS}}, author = {Maggiore, Manfredi and Rawn, Barry and Lehn, Peter}, journal = {SIAM JOURNAL ON CONTROL AND OPTIMIZATION}, issn = {0363-0129}, doi = {10.1137/100804784}, abstract = {{The problem of determining invariance kernels for planar single-input nonlinear systems is considered. If K is a closed set, its invariance kernel is the largest subset of K with the property of being positively invariant for arbitrary measurable input signals. It is shown that the boundary of the invariance kernel is a concatenation of solutions of two so-called extremal vector fields. Moreover, only the solutions through a finite number of special points are of interest. This result makes it possible to devise an algorithm which determines the invariance kernel of a simply connected set in a finite number of steps.}}, pages = {1012--1037}, number = {2}, volume = {50}, language = {English}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Downloads/Fulltext.pdf} } 

@article{10.1002/asjc.1719, year = {2018}, title = {{Viability Criteria for a Switched System on Bounded Polyhedron}}, author = {Lv, JianFeng and Gao, Yan and Zhao, Na}, journal = {Asian Journal of Control}, issn = {1561-8625}, doi = {10.1002/asjc.1719}, abstract = {{The viability of a switched system on a bounded polyhedron set, which is expressed by some linear inequalities, is investigated. Based on nonsmooth analysis and the properties of the tangent cone, a necessary and sufficient condition for viability is proposed. It is shown that the viability of a system is equivalent to the consistency of some systems of linear inequalities. Specifically, a viability condition for a switched system on a bounded polyhedron is presented. According to this condition, determining the viability of a bounded polyhedron can be transformed into verifying certain conditions at vertices of each facet. The method of determining viability, which transforms verifying the condition from infinite points to finite ones, can be implemented easily in practice. An algorithm to determine the viability for the switched system is constructed by using convex analysis. In addition, the approach can be extended to the switched system in which a control input is present. Finally, an example is listed to illustrate the effectiveness of the results.}}, pages = {2380--2387}, number = {6}, volume = {20}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Lv-Viability%20Criteria%20for%20a%20Switched%20System%20on%20Bounded%20Polyhedron-2018-Asian%20Journal%20of%20Control.pdf} } 

@article{ WOS:000443086300001, year = {2018}, keywords = {Switched systems; Control; Viability kernel; Reachable set}, title = {{The computation of the viability kernel for switched systems}}, author = {Lv, Jianfeng and Gao, Yan}, journal = {ADVANCES IN DIFFERENCE EQUATIONS}, issn = {1687-1847}, doi = {10.1186/s13662-018-1756-y}, abstract = {{The computation of the viability kernel provides the guarantee for the security evolution of the systems. In this paper, we focus on the computation of the viability kernel for discrete-time and continuous-time switched systems. A connection between the backward reachable set and the viability kernel for switched systems is established. The methods of computing the viability kernel for switched systems are constructed by using this connection. First, a method of computing the viability kernel for discrete-time switched systems is proposed. Then, taking into account the special structure of switched linear systems, a simple algorithm that is easy to implement is developed. Moreover, the methods of dealing with the discrete systems are extended to the continuous systems, and the algorithms of computing the viability kernel for continuous-time switched systems and switched linear systems are proposed. Finally, examples are listed to illustrate the effectiveness of the main results.}}, language = {English}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Lv-The%20computation%20of%20the%20viability%20kernel%20for%20switched%20systems-2018-ADVANCES%20IN%20DIFFERENCE%20EQUATIONS.pdf} }

@article{ WOS:000991620300002, year = {2023}, title = {{Determining the Viability of an Unbounded Polyhedron for a Switched System}}, author = {Lv, Jianfeng and Zhao, Na}, journal = {DISCRETE DYNAMICS IN NATURE AND SOCIETY}, issn = {1026-0226}, doi = {10.1155/2023/1153483}, abstract = {{This paper proposes a new method to determine the viability of a switched system on a cone and an unbounded polyhedron. First, we investigate the viability condition on a cone. Then, a sufficient viability criterion for a polyhedron, which is expressed by a convex hull of finite number of extreme points and a nonnegative linear combination of finite extreme directions, is presented by using nonsmooth analysis. Based on this criterion, instead of all boundary points, just several extreme points and extreme directions are needed to be verified whether satisfying some conditions. The advantage of the proposed methods is that determining the viability for a switched system is easy to be implemented. Finally, an example is listed to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed methods.}}, volume = {2023}, language = {English}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Lv-Determining%20the%20Viability%20of%20an%20Unbounded%20Polyhedron%20for%20a%20Switched-%20%20%20System-2023-DISCRETE%20DYNAMICS%20IN%20NATURE%20AND%20SOCIETY.pdf} } 

@article{10.1007/s10287-013-0189-z, year = {2013}, title = {{Computation of viability kernels: a case study of by-catch fisheries}}, author = {Krawczyk, Jacek B. and Pharo, Alastair and Serea, Oana S. and Sinclair, Stewart}, journal = {Computational Management Science}, issn = {1619-697X}, doi = {10.1007/s10287-013-0189-z}, abstract = {{Traditional means of studying environmental economics and management problems consist of optimal control and dynamic game models that are solved for optimal or equilibrium strategies. Notwithstanding the possibility of multiple equilibria, the models’ users—managers or planners—will usually be provided with a single optimal or equilibrium strategy no matter how reliable, or unreliable, the underlying models and their parameters are. In this paper we follow an alternative approach to policy making that is based on viability theory. It establishes “satisficing” (in the sense of Simon), or viable, policies that keep the dynamic system in a constraint set and are, generically, multiple and amenable to each manager’s own prioritisation. Moreover, they can depend on fewer parameters than the optimal or equilibrium strategies and hence be more robust. For the determination of these (viable) policies, computation of “viability kernels” is crucial. We introduce a MATLAB application, under the name of VIKAASA, which allows us to compute approximations to viability kernels. We discuss two algorithms implemented in VIKAASA. One approximates the viability kernel by the locus of state space positions for which solutions to an auxiliary cost-minimising optimal control problem can be found. The lack of any solution implies the infinite value function and indicates an evolution which leaves the constraint set in finite time, therefore defining the point from which the evolution originates as belonging to the kernel’s complement. The other algorithm accepts a point as viable if the system’s dynamics can be stabilised from this point. We comment on the pros and cons of each algorithm. We apply viability theory and the VIKAASA software to a problem of by-catch fisheries exploited by one or two fleets and provide rules concerning the proportion of fish biomass and the fishing effort that a sustainable fishery’s exploitation should follow.}}, pages = {365--396}, number = {4}, volume = {10}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Krawczyk-Computation%20of%20viability%20kernels-%20a%20case%20study%20of%20by-catch%20fisheries-2013-Computational%20Management%20Science.pdf} } 

@article{10.1007/s00236-023-00437-5, year = {2023}, title = {{Constrained polynomial zonotopes}}, author = {Kochdumper, Niklas and Althoff, Matthias}, journal = {Acta Informatica}, issn = {0001-5903}, doi = {10.1007/s00236-023-00437-5}, abstract = {{We introduce constrained polynomial zonotopes, a novel non-convex set representation that is closed under linear map, Minkowski sum, Cartesian product, convex hull, intersection, union, and quadratic as well as higher-order maps. We show that the computational complexity of the above-mentioned set operations for constrained polynomial zonotopes is at most polynomial in the representation size. The fact that constrained polynomial zonotopes are generalizations of zonotopes, polytopes, polynomial zonotopes, Taylor models, and ellipsoids further substantiates the relevance of this new set representation. In addition, the conversion from other set representations to constrained polynomial zonotopes is at most polynomial with respect to the dimension, and we present efficient methods for representation size reduction and for enclosing constrained polynomial zonotopes by simpler set representations.}}, pages = {279--316}, number = {3}, volume = {60}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Kochdumper-Constrained%20polynomial%20zonotopes-2023-Acta%20Informatica.pdf} } 

@article{10.1109/cdc42340.2020.9304022, year = {2020}, title = {{Computing Non-Convex Inner-Approximations of Reachable Sets for Nonlinear Continuous Systems}}, author = {Kochdumper, Niklas and Althoff, Matthias}, journal = {2020 59th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC)}, doi = {10.1109/cdc42340.2020.9304022}, abstract = {{We present a novel approach to compute non-convex inner-approximations of reachable sets for nonlinear continuous systems. The concept of our approach is to extract inner-approximations of reachable sets from pre-computed outer-approximations, which makes our method computationally very efficient as we demonstrate with several numerical examples. Since our approach has polynomial complexity with respect to the system dimension, it is well-suited for high-dimensional systems.}}, pages = {2130--2137}, volume = {00}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Kochdumper-Computing%20Non-Convex%20Inner-Approximations%20of%20Reachable%20Sets%20for%20Nonlinear%20Continuous%20Systems-2020-2020%2059th%20IEEE%20Conference%20on%20Decision%20and%20Control%20(CDC).pdf} } 

@article{ WOS:000326339500012, year = {2013}, keywords = {Complexity reduction; constrained systems; decentralization; decomposition; reachability; Riccati transformation; viability}, title = {{A Modified Riccati Transformation for Decentralized Computation of the Viability Kernel Under LTI Dynamics}}, author = {Kaynama, Shahab and Oishi, Meeko}, journal = {IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATIC CONTROL}, issn = {0018-9286}, doi = {10.1109/tac.2013.2272152}, abstract = {{Computing the viability kernel is key in providing guarantees of safety and proving existence of safety-preserving controllers for constrained dynamical systems. Current numerical techniques that approximate this construct suffer from a complexity that is exponential in the dimension of the state. We study conditions under which a linear time-invariant (LTI) system can be suitably decomposed into lower dimensional subsystems so as to admit a conservative computation of the viability kernel in a decentralized fashion in subspaces. We then present an isomorphism that imposes these desired conditions, most suitably on two-time-scale systems. Decentralized computations are performed in the transformed coordinates, yielding a conservative approximation of the viability kernel in the original state space. Significant reduction of complexity can be achieved, allowing the previously inapplicable tools to be employed for treatment of higher dimensional systems. We show the results on two examples including a 6-D system.}}, pages = {2878--2892}, number = {11}, volume = {58}, language = {English}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Kaynama-A%20Modified%20Riccati%20Transformation%20for%20Decentralized%20Computation%20of%20the-%20%20%20Viability%20Kernel%20Under%20LTI%20Dynamics-2013-IEEE%20TRANSACTIONS%20ON%20AUTOMATIC%20CONTROL.pdf} } 

@article{10.1145/2562059.2562117, year = {2014}, title = {{Sampling-based approximation of the viability kernel for high-dimensional linear sampled-data systems}}, author = {Gillula, Jeremy H and Kaynama, Shahab and Tomlin, Claire J}, journal = {Proceedings of the 17th international conference on Hybrid systems: computation and control}, doi = {10.1145/2562059.2562117}, abstract = {{Proving that systems satisfy hard input and state constraints is frequently desirable when designing cyber-physical systems. One method for doing so is to compute the viability kernel, the subset of the state space for which a control signal exists that is guaranteed to keep the system within the constraints over some time horizon. In this paper we present a novel method for approximating the viability kernel for linear sampled-data systems using a sampling-based algorithm, which by its construction offers a direct trade-off between scalability and accuracy. We also prove that the algorithm is correct, that its convergence properties are optimal, and demonstrate it on a simple example. We conclude by briefly describing additional results which are omitted due to space constraints.}}, pages = {173--182}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Gillula-Sampling-based%20approximation%20of%20the%20viability%20kernel%20for%20high-dimensional%20linear%20sampled-data%20systems-2014-Proceedings%20of%20the%2017th%20international%20conference%20on%20Hybrid%20systems-%20computation%20and%20control.pdf} } 

@article{GAJARDO20196, year = {2019}, keywords = {Discrete-time systems,Dynamic programming,Level-set approach,Mixed constraints,Viability kernel}, title = {{The viability kernel of dynamical systems with mixed constraints: A level-set approach}}, author = {Gajardo, Pedro and Hermosilla, Cristopher}, journal = {Systems \& Control Letters}, issn = {0167-6911}, doi = {10.1016/j.sysconle.2019.03.006}, url = {https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167691119300350}, abstract = {{This paper deals with control systems with mixed (state-control) constraints and dynamics in discrete-time. We aim at providing a practical method for computing the viability kernel for such systems. We take a standard approach via optimal control theory, that is, we identify the viability kernel as the effective domain of the value function of a suitable optimal control problem. A dynamic programming principle can be established in order to compute that value function. However, from a practical point of view this may turn out in a slow scheme for such computation, because at each step the mixed constraints need to be verified. In this work we take a different path which has been inspired by the level-set approach studied for optimal control problems with (pure) state constraints. An algorithm is proposed for computing the viability kernel and some numerical examples are shown to demonstrate the proposed method.}}, pages = {6--12}, volume = {127}, language = {English}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Gajardo-The%20viability%20kernel%20of%20dynamical%20systems%20with%20mixed%20constraints-%20A level-set%20approach-2019-Systems%20&%20Control%20Letters.pdf} } 

@article{undefined, year = {1991}, title = {{Viability Kernels of Differential Inclusions with Constraints: Algorithms and Applications}}, author = {Frankowska, Helene and Quincampoix, Marc}, journal = {J. Math. Syst., Estim., and Control}, volume = {1}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Downloads/WP-90-064.pdf} } 

@article{10.48550/arxiv.1708.04797, year = {2017}, title = {{Computing control invariant sets is easy}}, author = {Fiacchini, Mirko and Alamir, Mazen}, journal = {arXiv}, doi = {10.48550/arxiv.1708.04797}, eprint = {1708.04797}, abstract = {{In this paper we consider the problem of computing control invariant sets for linear controlled systems with constraints on the input and on the states. We focus in particular on the complexity of the computation of the N-step operator, given by the Minkowski addition of sets, that is the basis of many of the iterative procedures for obtaining control invariant sets. Set inclusions conditions for control invariance are presented that involve the N-step sets and are posed in form of linear programming problems. Such conditions are employed in algorithms based on LP problems that allow to overcome the complexity limitation inherent to the set addition and can be applied also to high dimensional systems. The efficiency and scalability of the method are illustrated by computing in less than two seconds an approximation of the maximal control invariant set, based on the 15-step operator, for a system whose state and input dimensions are 20 and 10 respectively.}}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Fiacchini-Computing%20control%20invariant%20sets%20is%20easy-2017-arXiv.pdf} } 

@article{DOYEN2010629, year = {2010}, keywords = {Discrete time,Dynamic programming,State constraints,Stochastic control,Viability}, title = {{Stochastic viability and dynamic programming}}, author = {Doyen, Luc and Lara, Michel De}, journal = {Systems \& Control Letters}, issn = {0167-6911}, doi = {10.1016/j.sysconle.2010.07.008}, eprint = {1002.1140}, url = {https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167691110000952}, abstract = {{This paper deals with the stochastic control of nonlinear systems in the presence of state and control constraints, for uncertain discrete-time dynamics in finite dimensional spaces. In the deterministic case, the viability kernel is known to play a basic role for the analysis of such problems and the design of viable control feedbacks. In the present paper, we show how a stochastic viability kernel and viable feedbacks relying on probability (or chance) constraints can be defined and computed by a dynamic programming equation. An example illustrates most of the assertions.}}, pages = {629--634}, number = {10}, volume = {59}, language = {English}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Doyen-Stochastic%20viability%20and%20dynamic%20programming-2010-Systems%20&%20Control%20Letters.pdf} } 

@article{10.3182/20080706-5-kr-1001.02430, year = {2008}, title = {{Approximate Viability using Quasi-Random Samples and a Neural Network Classifier}}, author = {Djeridane, B. and Lygeros, J.}, journal = {IFAC Proceedings Volumes}, issn = {1474-6670}, doi = {10.3182/20080706-5-kr-1001.02430}, abstract = {{We propose a novel approach to the computational investigation of reachability properties for nonlinear control systems. Our goal is to combat the curse of dimensionality, by proposing a mesh-free algorithm to numerically approximate the viability kernel of a given compact set. Our algorithm is based on a non-smooth analysis characterization of the viability kernel. At its heart is a neural network classifier based on Bayesian regularization, which operates on a pseudorandom sample extracted from the state-space (instead of a regular grid). The algorithm was implemented in Matlab and applied successfully to examples with linear and nonlinear dynamics.}}, pages = {14342--14347}, number = {2}, volume = {41}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Downloads/1593.pdf} } 

@article{ WOS:000246670300020, year = {2007}, keywords = {dynamical systems; optimal control; support vector machines (SVMs); viability kernel}, title = {{Approximating viability kernels with support vector machines}}, author = {Deffuant, Guillaume and Chapel, Laetitia and Martin, Sophie}, journal = {IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATIC CONTROL}, issn = {0018-9286}, doi = {10.1109/tac.2007.895881}, abstract = {{We propose an algorithm which performs a progressive approximation of a viability kernel, iteratively using a classification method. We establish the mathematical conditions that the classification method should fulfill to guarantee the convergence to the actual viability kernel. We study more particularly the use of support vector machines (SVMs) as classification techniques. We show that they make possible to use gradient optimisation techniques to find a viable control at each time step, and over several time steps. This allows us to avoid the exponential growth of the computing time with the dimension of the control space. It also provides simple and efficient control procedures. We illustrate the method with some examples inspired from ecology.}}, pages = {933--937}, number = {5}, volume = {52}, language = {English}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Downloads/SVMkernel.pdf} } 

@article{10.1109/tac.2010.2042657, year = {2010}, title = {{Viability Kernels for Nonlinear Control Systems Using Bang Controls}}, author = {Broucke, Mireille E and Turriff, John}, journal = {IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control}, issn = {0018-9286}, doi = {10.1109/tac.2010.2042657}, abstract = {{This note develops a method to construct viability kernels for multi-input, single-output nonlinear control systems affine in the control. The safe set is the superlevel set of a smooth function, and the control is constrained to take values in a compact polyhedron. The results make use of the Frankowska method and the notion of viable capture basins.}}, pages = {1280--1284}, number = {5}, volume = {55}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Broucke-Viability%20Kernels%20for%20Nonlinear%20Control%20Systems%20Using%20Bang%20Controls-2010-IEEE%20Transactions%20on%20Automatic%20Control.pdf} } 

@article{10.1007/s10287-015-0246-x, year = {2016}, title = {{Accelerating viability kernel computation with CUDA architecture: application to bycatch fishery management}}, author = {Brias, Antoine and Mathias, Jean-Denis and Deffuant, Guillaume}, journal = {Computational Management Science}, issn = {1619-697X}, doi = {10.1007/s10287-015-0246-x}, abstract = {{Computing a viability kernel consumes time and memory resources which increase exponentially with the dimension of the problem. This curse of dimensionality strongly limits the applicability of this approach, otherwise promising. We report here an attempt to tackle this problem with Graphics Processing Units (GPU). We design and implement a version of the viability kernel algorithm suitable for General Purpose GPU (GPGPU) computing using Nvidia’s architecture, CUDA (Computing Unified Device Architecture). Different parts of the algorithm are parallelized on the GPU device and we test the algorithm on a dynamical system of theoretical population growth. We study computing time gains as a function of the number of dimensions and the accuracy of the grid covering the state space. The speed factor reaches up to 20 with the GPU version compared to the Central Processing Unit (CPU) version, making the approach more applicable to problems in 4 to 7 dimensions. We use the GPU version of the algorithm to compute viability kernel of bycatch fishery management problems up to 6 dimensions.}}, pages = {371--391}, number = {3}, volume = {13}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Brias-Accelerating%20viability%20kernel%20computation%20with%20CUDA%20architecture-%20application%20to%20bycatch%20fishery%20management-2016-Computational%20Management%20Science.pdf} } 

@article{10.1007/s10957-010-9706-1, year = {2010}, title = {{Structure of Viability Kernels for Some Linear Differential Games}}, author = {Botkin, N. D. and Ryazantseva, E. A.}, journal = {Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications}, issn = {0022-3239}, doi = {10.1007/s10957-010-9706-1}, abstract = {{A convenient form of necessary and sufficient conditions of viability for differential games with linear dynamics is proposed. These conditions are utilized to construct maximal viable subsets of state constraints, viability kernels, in two illustrative two-dimensional examples. These examples demonstrate the relative simplicity of the structure of the viability kernels. It was found that the boundaries of the viability kernels consist of segments of the boundary of the state constraint and of lines defined by the first integrals of the governing equations as the players use extremal constant controls. It is conjectured that such a structure holds in high dimensional cases too.}}, pages = {42--57}, number = {1}, volume = {147}, keywords = {}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Botkin-Structure%20of%20Viability%20Kernels%20for%20Some%20Linear%20Differential%20Games-2010-Journal%20of%20Optimization%20Theory%20and%20Applications.pdf} } 

@article{BONNEUIL20061444, year = {2006}, keywords = {Set-valued analysis,Simulated annealing,Viability theory}, title = {{Computing the viability kernel in large state dimension}}, author = {Bonneuil, Noël}, journal = {Journal of Mathematical Analysis and Applications}, issn = {0022-247X}, doi = {10.1016/j.jmaa.2005.11.076}, url = {https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022247X05012916}, abstract = {{T-viable states in a closed set K under a certain set-valued dynamic are states from which there exists at least one solution remaining in K until a given time horizon T. Minimizing the cost to constraints lets us determine whether a given state is T-viable or not, and this is implementable in large dimension for the state-space. Minimizing on the initial condition itself lets find viable states. Quincampoix's semi-permeability property helps find other states located close to the viability boundary, which is then gradually delineated. The algorithm is particularly suited to the identification of specific trajectories, such as the heavy viable solution, or to the computation of viability kernels associated with delayed dynamics. The volume of the viability kernel and its confidence interval can be estimated by randomly drawing states and checking their viability status. Examples are given.}}, pages = {1444--1454}, number = {2}, volume = {323}, language = {English}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Documents/Papers%20Library/Bonneuil-Computing%20the%20viability%20kernel%20in%20large%20state%20dimension-2006-Journal%20of%20Mathematical%20Analysis%20and%20Applications.pdf} } 

@article{ WOS:000239268400003, year = {2006}, keywords = {viability kernel; capture basin; Ultra-Bee scheme; optimal control}, title = {{An anti-diffusive scheme for viability problems}}, author = {Bokanowski, O. and Martin, S. and Munos, R. and Zidani, H.}, journal = {APPLIED NUMERICAL MATHEMATICS}, issn = {0168-9274}, doi = {10.1016/j.apnum.2006.03.004}, abstract = {{This paper is concerned with the numerical approximation of viability kernels. The method described here provides an alternative approach to the usual viability algorithm. We first consider a characterization of the viability kernel as the value function of a related optimal control problem, and then use a specially relevant numerical scheme for its approximation. Since this value function is discontinuous, usual discretization schemes (such as finite differences) would provide a poor approximation quality because of numerical diffusion. Hence, we investigate the Ultra-Bee scheme, particularly interesting here for its anti-diffusive property in the transport of discontinuous functions. Although currently there is no available convergence proof for this scheme, we observed that numerically, the experiments done on several benchmark problems for computing viability kernels and capture basins are very encouraging compared to the viability algorithm, which fully illustrates the relevance of this scheme for numerical approximation of viability problems. (c) 2006 IMACS. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.}}, pages = {1147--1162}, number = {9}, volume = {56}, language = {English}, note = {Workshop on Numerical Methods for Viscosity Solutions and Applications, Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dipartimento Matemat, Rome, ITALY, SEP 06-08, 2004}, local-url = {file://localhost/Users/sigifredo/Downloads/bokanowski.pdf} }